I was looking at all these guides that
there are to sort of get your things to
do well on YouTube. Like, what are the
hooks? How are you can get the algorithm
to like you and amplify you?
>> Are you adopting any of them?
>> Uh, not yet.
I'm Lulu Garcia-Navarro and today I'm in
Silicon Valley to speak with YouTube CEO
Neal Mohan. YouTube is a juggernaut.
>> So, a couple weeks ago, I clicked on
this video.
>> This is a bird feeder.
>> The platform is winning the streaming
war with Netflix. It's made creators
like Mr. Beast and Ms. Rachel into huge
stars and it's owning the video podcast
space.
>> Hey there, welcome to Conan O'Brien
Needs a Friend.
>> Add to that it's growing distribution
business with YouTube TV and the deals
with both the NFL and the Oscars. And
it's clear YouTube, which is owned by
parent company Google, has few, if any,
peers. Which is why I wanted to sit down
with Neal Mohan.
Mohan has been in charge of YouTube
since 2023
and has overseen its rapid growth, but
that hasn't come without controversy.
Just this week, a jury in California
found the company negligent, alongside
Meta, for harming a teenager's mental
health through their addictive features.
>> And the jury said that YouTube, Google,
failed to operate YouTube in a
reasonable fashion.
>> That verdict, which YouTube told us they
plan to appeal, came down after Mohan
and I talked, but we still had a lengthy
discussion about YouTube's impact on
children and us all. Here's my
conversation with YouTube CEO Neal
Mohan.
I am very excited to be here today at
YouTube. I wanted to start with a
statistic. Um, Mr. Beast, of course, the
biggest content creator on YouTube, said
that
humanity now spends 2% of its waking
hours on YouTube.
I mean, is the goal to make it 3%?
>> So,
I know I know Jimmy very well. We have
He and I have not done that math
together, so I don't think I can
validate his math or not. I think our
goal, I mean, look, we're we measure
ourselves by this concept of whether
viewers, all of us, the 2 billion people
that come to YouTube every single day,
are satisfied by their experience on
YouTube. And so, that is how we orient
decisions around the product or the
business. And
we have grown, you know, we're the, you
know, the number one
streamer, I think, for 3 years running
now in the US on television screens. You
know, we're
an incredibly large podcast platform.
You know, this conversation
I will watch on YouTube. And so, so
yeah, that has been that's definitely
been part of the journey. I'm incredibly
proud of it in terms of making some
long-term bets that have really paid off
for YouTube, but also for our viewers
and our creators.
>> I mean, not to be too meta about this,
but in fact,
um,
obviously, this is going to go on
YouTube. We've got cameras and lights
here.
And what used to be an audio podcast is
now a video podcast. And part of that
reason
is because this is the way to gain new
audiences, to reach people
because everyone seems to be on the
platform now.
And
what is it that you think
makes shows grow
and gains an audience? I mean, how do I
make this a hit?
>> Mhm.
>> Other than like maybe taking a chair and
bashing you over the head.
We might get there in a in a, you know,
in a in a bit.
>> Um, when I get asked this question, I I
think it's, in my view, very, very
simple. And it has to do
really with how YouTube works, which is
the people that are on the other side of
the camera, other side of the screen
rather, that are that are watching you
on a television screen or or or on their
mobile phones when they're um watching
this conversation or even on their
desktops or what have you.
The one thing they can suss out really,
really quickly is if it's like truly
authentic. And I really do think that if
you go and actually spend a minute
thinking about
any creator's channel, that is really
what comes uh through for the really
successful creators.
>> I want to talk about your competition
because you mentioned podcasts. You
recently though have had several major
podcasters leave YouTube for Netflix. Um
shows like The Breakfast The Breakfast
Club, My Favorite Murderer. Are you
worried that your biggest stars are are
going to be signed away to places like
Netflix? And we're also, by the way, of
course, seeing Meta just announced this
week that they were interested in luring
some of your creators away. Um Apple is
now talking about, obviously, getting
into the video podcast business more
aggressively. I mean, they're taking,
you know, they're taking the things that
you built and they're saying, "Come over
here. The water's warm."
>> Yeah. Um you know what I I'd I'd say a
couple things about that. So, first,
um
it is
flattering that they see us as sort of
the center of culture, especially in
terms of what these amazing creators
have been able to do on YouTube.
But the real sort of conversation, when
I speak to our creators and I speak to
our creators several times a week, of
all sizes, really, up-and-coming
creators, some of the very large ones
that you've mentioned, what they always
tell me is that no matter what they look
to do,
they understand that YouTube is their
home. There would be no Beast Games if
there wasn't Mr. Beast on YouTube. And
Jimmy knows that and he talks about that
and that is um that's the way that I
think about it. They tell me over and
over that their most authentic real
audience is on YouTube. They know that
is the font of a lot of their success
off of YouTube, but if as a result of
their success on YouTube, they are also
experiencing success in other places,
whether it's working with a studio on a
project or whether it's writing a book
or coming up in the case of Mr. Beast
with his chocolate bar or what have you,
then I think that's awesome. Um I have
not come across YouTubers that have
completely yanked their content off
YouTube. I I can't imagine why they
would why they would do that. And
frankly, they're in a position where
they can say no to that, right? They
don't have to because
the nice thing about what they've built
on YouTube is that there's other places
that are so desperate to actually work
with them that they'll acquiesce to what
our YouTubers are ultimately know is the
right decision for them in the long
term, which is to never leave their
home.
>> Yeah, I mean, it just seems like it's an
interesting consequence of the YouTube
model because in many ways you're an
incubator. You know, you take like you
said anyone
who's got a camera and a dream and they
have a shot at
getting an audience and
connecting with them. But once they get
to a certain level of success,
it seems like all these other groups are
sort of circling to to take them away.
>> And they never leave because they know
that their home is on YouTube.
>> I want to move to another part of your
business that um you are also really
dominating. YouTube TV
is now bigger than many of the cable
operators.
And since 2025, the main way that
YouTube is now uh consumed in the US is
on connected television.
At the beginning of 2026, you wrote,
"YouTube is the new TV because creators
are the new primetime." I think one of
the things that has Hollywood nervous is
that it's a question of quality, too.
You know, prestige TV, something that's
hard and costly to make.
YouTube is mostly not that.
I was looking at all these guides
that there are to sort of get your
things to do well on YouTube. Like, what
are the what are the hooks? How are you
can get the algorithm to like you and
amplify you?
>> Are you adopting any of them?
>> Uh
not yet.
Um
but you know, it's all about
tapping into a lizard brain and not
about maybe elevating things that have a
narrative arc, that have character
development, that have complex moral
decision-making.
And I'm just wondering, are we losing
something
with the dominance of
the kind of creator economy that YouTube
specializes in?
>> Mhm.
You know, I think um
this is a conversation that
I do think the industry likes to have,
um and it's often times the industry
just sort of talking to itself, to be
honest. And
I think it's presumptuous for
us to
judge or tell people what is high
quality or low quality or prestige or
not. Um
at the end of the day, 2 billion people
come to YouTube. Um
families, parents, um young people,
college kids, older adults.
Uh and they find what they love. And um
there's every type of creator and every
type of genre because it is a reflection
of humanity. We have um incredible
creators that are producing amazing
scripted content in Hollywood, like Alan
Chicken Chow or Kanika Dewan, who have
built sound stages to produce content
that engages people in incredibly I
would put that up against any sort of
quote-unquote sort of prestige content
out there. I would put Miss Rachel or
Mark Rober or Cleo Abram against any
sort of quote-unquote traditional sort
of produced content. And the great thing
about it is that when the next Miss
Rachel or the next next Mark Rober comes
along who's even more is creative in a
different way, they get a shot at it as
well. As opposed to someone in sort of
traditional sort of media saying,
"Actually no, I don't think your idea is
a good one or it's low quality,
quote-unquote." Um who are we to say
that?
>> So content creators are king, but
you are moving into um the traditional
purview of the networks. Uh you secure
exclusive broadcasting rights for events
like the Oscars starting in 2029 and
currently some NFL games. I've seen of
course predictions that this is going to
be the death knell for cable and
broadcast television
because these are such big tentpole
events.
I mean what is the strategy here? Is it
to sort of pick out out the biggest
events from traditional broadcast
television? I mean, is the Super Bowl
next and bring it to YouTube?
>> Well, I mean, I guess the first thing
that I would say is um if you think
about it from a consumer standpoint, a
viewer standpoint, especially a younger
viewer,
um their expectation is that when they
turn on the TV
that all of what they want to watch and
engage with is in the same experience.
And so, that is everything from a
15-second short. By the way, shorts are,
you know, lots of people watch them on
televisions
to a 15-minute sort of classic YouTube
sort of VOD or long-form video
to, you know, 3-hour podcast, 1-hour
podcast through a 3-hour NFL game, or a
15-hour live stream cuz we have, you
know, lots of streamers on our platform.
And the expectation is that all of that
is a seamless experience that they can
get through their recommendations on
YouTube. And so, that's the consumer
lens through which we have looked at it.
And we made that bet for for three three
reasons. One is could we expand
the market by making it easy for fans to
actually find football games, whether it
was a live game, but our our biggest
relationship is actually Sunday Ticket,
which is a subscription service. And the
second was like could we bring
technological innovation to it. So, you
know, multiview, like being able to
watch which people take for granted now
was one of like the core innovations we
brought to the NFL experience. Creator
integrations, right? Like we did this uh
new concept that was um we call it
creator watch withs, which is basically
the live stream, I mean the the live
game, like our Brazil game, which was
the um one of the season openers last
year, but watch alongside your favorite
creator. And so those are the types of
things that we talk about with the NFL.
So, when when the commissioner and I
have a meeting with our teams, that's
that's really what our focus is. I have
an 18-year-old son, he's a sports nut.
Uh he watches lots of live sports, but
his sports highlights are his YouTube
feed. And the NFL understood that, and
so that led to the partnership that we
have. And so that's how And the Oscars
actually was a similar type of
conversation with the Academy.
>> Since you mentioned the Oscars, did you
see Conan O'Brien's skit this year um
where he sort of poked fun at YouTube?
>> I did, yeah. Yeah. And two two YouTube
jokes, actually.
>> What you think?
>> I think Conan is very funny. And he's
actually a YouTuber. He's been on
YouTube for a very long time. His Team
Coco channel is does really well on
YouTube.
>> Mhm. Do you think the broadcast networks
that have been traditionally been the
home of of these franchises become like
the dodo? Because I mean they're the
those are the biggest drivers also for
them. And you taking that away,
I mean, kind of like what's left?
>> Well, you know, what's interesting about
tho- those partners is they're
obviously, as I said, some of our
largest, most strategic partners because
of YouTube TV, but they are also large
partners in the classic sense of being
creators on YouTube, whether they are
news some of the, you know, largest
news partners on YouTube are
are like Fox News, right? They're very
large on our platform.
Just like The New York Times has a very
large presence on on YouTube and the
Wall Street Journal or
a lot of the entertainment networks.
Disney is one of our, you know,
strategic partners. They have a big
investment and presence on YouTube. And
so
we work closely with them every single
day. They understand sort of what's
happening in the the ecosystem and I
think
they also understand that like a lot of
the fandom around their IP, their
franchises, the the the amount of
creativity that comes out of their
studios is happening on YouTube. So they
really tap into that and they invest in
it.
>> So we've been talking obviously about
the power of video today and I want to
get your thoughts on on this because
I understand that you are a big reader.
And one of the other big concerns that I
hear about this world that we're
entering and living in now and sort of
embarking on with with AI is that you
know, there are studies showing that all
our video consumption has ushered in
this age of post-literacy.
Um that Gen Z now overwhelmingly prefers
to consume visual content on YouTube um
as opposed to traditional media.
And that has tracked with a sort of more
pronounced drop in reading levels,
attention spans.
What do you think about
YouTube's role in changing the way that
we
think and our brains?
>> Yeah, I mean, I can answer that and
you're
presumably I you're talking about young
people and
people you know
>> My brain too though, but yeah.
>> But you know, what certainly where the
responsibility bar for all of us is is
very high, which is which is young
people and and children.
You know, I have three kids of my own,
so as a parent, as a dad, I think about
their development and, you know, both
challenges and opportunities every
single day. Like, I can say
unequivocally,
you know, I encourage my kids to go run
around and touch grass and, you know,
for our youngest, be on the swing set or
play basketball with my son and all of
those types of things.
Um I
encourage that. I encourage them to read
as much as they possibly can. You know,
I love to read, but um
I encourage our we my wife and I
encourage our kids to do that as well.
And
um I on YouTube, what I find is there's
um
content as we've described that young
people find entertaining and they learn
new things on a regular basis. Um I
um
>> do you think it matters that they're
learning things I I I this isn't a
gotcha. This is actually I'm just
genuinely curious.
Do you think it matters that they're
learning things through video and and
that that is just sort of changing the
way that they absorb information or
doesn't?
>> I think that um video, just like
reading, is an important way for people
to learn. When you And when you say the
term video, it's like learning visually.
Um and I see that, you know, just like
back in the day, we learned in the class
classroom visually from our teachers, I
do see a lot of that learning happening
on YouTube. And actually, teachers tell
me that all the time, too. Like, it's
>> And I want to say my daughter's dyslexic
and YouTube is a huge part of her life.
She learns visually and it's been a
godsend for her for all sorts of
different reasons. So, um this isn't to
say that this is necessarily a bad
thing, but it is a thing.
>> Yeah. I think that it is a
it is I think about it more in the in
the analogy of like a library. And it's
a visual library, but it's a library
that has lots and lots and lots of books
in it. And um the way that information
or knowledge is communicated or new ways
of thinking is communicated is visual,
audio visual, and I do think that is an
effective way for people to learn. Do I
think it's the only way? Of course not.
>> I want to ask you about uh
a lawsuit that's happening um where
you're currently, along with Meta, being
sued by a young woman who says YouTube
um is addictive and harmful
um when she was a minor. And uh this is
considered a landmark case here in
California.
Do you feel responsibility to remedy the
harm for that if your site is addictive
to people?
>> Um and I you know, I shouldn't comment
on that specific trial, of course, um as
you can as you can understand. What I
will say about again, and I think we I
was alluding to some of these things in
in my earlier answers,
the way I think about it is as you point
out, as we were just talking about, you
know, YouTube is this platform where
people go for many different reasons to,
you know, blow off steam, listen to
their favorite artists, you know,
whatever, Billie Eilish or Taylor Swift
or what have you, to connect with
community. That's a lot of what happens
on YouTube. Uh and then learn learn
things. And so I think the the mental
model for me is we should be thinking
about
protecting young people in the digital
world as opposed to protecting them from
the digital world. And like the best
analogy I can think about there is, you
know,
teaching my daughter to ride a bike.
Like it starts with training wheels and
you take off the training wheels and
then eventually like she can kind of go
and ride her bike and sort of be
>> got kids. You know that it's impossible.
It's impossible to put guardrails um on
on
kids with devices. It's so hard.
>> Yeah, and that's so that's what I was
trying trying to say which is
I feel like because of that sort of
principle of making sure that we're
protecting young people in the digital
world as opposed to shutting them off
from it because I also think it's wrong,
frankly, to eliminate that knowledge,
that that library of content because
there isn't there's amazing um wonderful
content that parents tell me about every
single day. Just like the experience
that you just shared about your
daughter. I have that certainly in my
household. So, well then how do you
approach it? Well, the way I think you
approach it is to make it so that um
what you can do around parental controls
as you described um or other types of
things are actually truly practical and
easy to use
and that can actually be enforceable.
And that's what we can do and that's
what my wife and I try to do in our
household. Like you said, we're not
perfect by any stretch. Um but if there
are things that we can do at YouTube to
make that job easier for parents, um
I think that is
that's the right approach.
>> You know, as a parent, which again, I
know you are, it can often
times feel like you're fighting against
Silicon Valley. Like the entire
it's you
trying to put some guardrails and some
order in the household and you are
fighting against, you know, these giant
corporations
of which you are one
um and it feels impossible. It feels for
many parents like they just lose the
battle.
>> Yeah, I mean look, I'm as parent of
three myself, uh
I
um
think about this
uh
how young people are growing up today. I
think that there are amazing things that
happened that access to information, to
knowledge that happened because of
platforms like YouTube. I also
understand the challenges that you're
describing. And so, it's not to
trivialize them in any sense because I
experience them, and it is
um something that I personally care
deeply about. It's personal to me.
Our approach to it is how can we bring
all of that sort of those awesome
experiences that you just described in
the context of your daughter that I
experienced with my own kids, but do it
in a way where parents are in control.
That's what we work towards. And so, you
know, we are a platform where we will
um build things like timers in the app.
We announced actually a couple months
ago now um the ability for parents to
actually have um a timer on short-form
video feeds, right? Um
to set it to zero.
That's industry-leading. That has not
been uh done before, but that's the way
that we make decisions here in terms of
putting that responsibility first and
foremost and kind of then letting the
chips fall where they may.
>> I I do want to talk about content
moderation because as YouTube has become
bigger and bigger and takes up more of
the culture and of people's engagement
and the way they get information, the
responsibility becomes, I think,
greater. Do you feel that responsibility
in terms of how things have have shifted
um for YouTube and just having a lot
more time spent on the on the site?
>> Every single day. It is um
my top priority in many ways, and um
I off- I often say that, you know,
YouTube is a reflection of what's
happening in the world, but what happens
on YouTube also impacts the world. And
that
from my standpoint is the motivation
behind the responsibility. There's 2
billion people that come to YouTube
every single day. We do have a
responsibility. We are a platform that
prides itself on being an open platform
without a gatekeeper. We stand for
freedom of speech, freedom of
expression. Um but we've had community
guidelines on our platform since the day
YouTube started. And living up to that
responsibility is
um a big part of what happens around
here literally every single day.
>> Yeah, I mean starting in 2020, you
deplatformed
um a number of YouTube accounts for
spreading lies.
You've re-platformed many of them, uh
most notably Donald Trump. Um after
January 6th, 2021, you had suspended
Donald Trump's account, uh and we should
note that YouTube wasn't alone in that.
Many other platforms did the same. Trump
then sued accusing you of censorship, um
and you reinstated his account in 2023.
And then Google, your parent company,
agreed to pay nearly $25 million to
settle the case last year
uh without admitting liability. Were you
wrong to ban him in the first place?
>> Um I think um I'm trying to think back
to the the policies that were I think in
place back then. Those many of those I
think are not in place today.
You know, we have because of a lot of
what we talked about here and the scale
of YouTube and what it represents in
culture and and society, we have a long
track record of working with
administrations really on both sides of
the aisle, and we make our decisions
based on what we believe at the moment
to be right for the creator ecosystem
that we spent the bulk of the time
talking about here. And we strive to
write our community guidelines in a way
uh the best as we possibly can. We
strive to be truly as much of an open
platform as we can.
>> the wrong decision, do you think, at the
time to ban
>> Um
>> you know, a former president?
>> I think that, you know, it's hard to
uh look at all of these decisions out of
context. You know, you think about You
know, you said um even back to 2020,
some of the examples that you were
describing there.
We were
embarking on this pandemic that was
going to shut down the world. Like,
science was being created every single
day.
Did we reverse those policies? Yeah, we
changed a lot of those policies because
I think that while the principles of,
you know, freedom of expression, free
speech
um remain sort of North Star, a kind of
immovable principles at least at
YouTube, we also want to be flexible in
terms of the context around policies.
And what we You know, back to your
question around
uh the president's channel and what
around January 6th, that was
I can't remember the very specific
policy that was in place then, but that
was
that was during that particular time
period. Fast forward,
a lot of those policies, even before
independent of, you know, the lawsuit or
what have you, were deprecated policies.
And so So, that's how we try to be
flexible about the policies, but also be
true to our principles about being an
open open platform. And so, when I was
took over as CEO, one of the first
decisions was to
to bring that channel back.
>> That was your decision.
>> Um that was ultimately my decision, yes.
>> Uh the money, we should say, is being
used to remodel the White House and pay
for Trump's ballroom.
Do you worry about the optics of that?
>> You know, again, I like I was saying, we
we we are we're very focused on our
creators. Like, what is the best for the
ecosystem? We do work with all
administrations. I think that what I
would say is um
we we
>> There's a lot of discussion, as you
know,
um about how
powerful entities in corporate America
are dealing with this administration now
and there will be questions when there
are others
and that relationship
and I think it's a fair question.
I don't you know I think I'm sure that
you're more focused on your creators but
this is I think it's a fair question.
>> Question being
how do we
>> How do you think about the optics of of
the money that you ended up paying to
Donald Trump to settle the case being
used on
you know his new ballroom?
>> I don't I don't know the specifics of of
of the ballroom or or how it's being
built. It is going towards a
preservation trust so I do think it's
something that is going to be for the
country but I think the way honestly I
think about it is sort of the way you
framed it in the question which is
I think it's a way for us to
settle on old policies. Most of them are
actually not even in place today and
focus on the future of our creators and
the ecosystem. We make those policy
decisions
independent of administrations based on
what we think is best for YouTube and
that is so hopefully something that we
will continue to do.
>> Something I'm you know I'm hearing from
you and I and I think it's very true is
that the culture has changed so much in
terms of what is deemed misinformation
not deemed misinformation and and you
have changed your policies along with
that and there's
you know
a lot of reporting around
what those changes are at YouTube and
I'm just sort of wondering how now
something gets taken down what exactly
are the community guidelines that get
breached is it
the
sort of amount of time someone's saying
something or the impact of what they're
saying?
>> You know the real the way I think that
it really breaks down into uh, a few
things that allows us to do what we do.
And the first is, as I said, you
clarity around the principles. And the
core principle here for, um, which is
again goes back to the very early days
of YouTube and has been consistent,
which is we are an open platform and we
stand for free speech. And that is a
stance that we've taken and we have
gotten criticized on both sides of the
aisle constantly. And I think that that
is, and I say this to my teams here, uh,
that's
that is a result of the privileged
position we're in. We are relevant to
people's lives and and there's
>> a difference between unfettered free
speech. We've we've seen free speech up
to absolutists like Elon Musk and what X
has become and that's a version of free
speech. Um, so I'm trying to understand
what your definition is.
>> I guess what I'm saying is our
principles
uh, uh,
the way to answer your original question
is it starts with the principles. We try
to hold true to this tenant of free
speech. That is core to how we do it.
And so then the question is, well, how
do you then write a set of community
guidelines that reflect it to the best
of our ability? And I always say that
that's that's the hard work, that's the
job, and the best we can do there is to
write them and to be transparent about
them. And then the third part of it is
to do our best to live up to what we
actually published. And then
and then we are going to get criticized
on either sides of it because people are
not going to be not everyone is going to
be happy about where that line is drawn.
And
>> But I guess I'm trying to understand
where the line is drawn. Because I mean,
let's take
you know, an a couple of examples. If
you think about Candace Owens, she has 5
million followers on your platform and
growing.
Um, and right now she has a multi-part
series on conspiracy theories around
Erica Kirk, the widow of Charlie Kirk.
She's also talked frequently about
Brigitte Macron, the first lady of
France, being a man. There has been
anti-Semitic content in the past. So,
explain to me how she's not violating
YouTube's community guidelines.
>> Um we I again, I'd have to look at a
very specific video there. So, it's hard
to answer that question in sort of a
generalized sense.
Uh and the decisions we make are video
by video, and we're able to do that at
scale because of our investment in our
systems and the people that we have. And
so, I don't think I can answer that
question um in a in a general sense.
What I will say is that we do have
guidelines around hate speech or
harassment. We have child We have
guidelines around making sure that kids
are protected on the platform, around
consumer fraud and those types of
things. And each one of those
guidelines, we try our best to actually
publish them
uh on our website. So, I couldn't get
into the details of every single one of
those
uh verticals and how it applies to an
individual video. But, I can speak in
terms of the broad principles that on in
general, we try to allow for as uh the
broadest spectrum of speech as possible.
Sometimes, it might be speech that
people disagree with.
Um you know, you're describing one
example. There's probably millions and
millions of videos on YouTube that I
disagree with, that you might disagree
with, but don't have
uh grounds for us to take down on the
platform.
>> know if it's disagreement. It's it's
it's just a question of
the fundamental questions, right? Or
what are facts? What are What is truth?
Um what is fair? Uh and
and what is the responsibility of a
platform like YouTube
uh to elevate those things uh and not
things that are unfair, untrue, and
possibly damaging.
>> Yeah.
You know, we are we are an open
platform, Lulu. Each one of the channels
on our platform, the New York Times
channel, the interview channel, you have
the editorial standards that you live by
on those channels, and they are
certainly different across the various
not just genres, but channels within
genres. And our job is to have a set of
rules and guidelines. Those are our
community guidelines. Every channel will
draw a different line in terms of what
they think is appropriate.
>> And And the reason I'm focusing on this
and and and forgive me, I I just it's
because I
>> these are important questions.
>> They are. Thank you. And and and also
it's just I think they're important for
you know, our understanding of the
world. I just saw one of your news
creators, Tara Palmieri, who I know a
little bit,
who
has now become a sort of independent
creator on YouTube. And I saw, you know,
you have cited her as, you know, someone
trying to respond, you know, promote
responsible journalism on the platform.
And she just had a post on YouTube sort
of lamenting the fact that she feels
like she's
fighting against an algorithm that
deprioritizes
that kind of reporting. That she's
being, you know,
she is having to fight
for the attention in in a world where
there's all sorts of other people
pushing things that might be more jazzy,
more interesting, but not true. And I
guess
how do you
promote responsible informa-
information?
>> I think the best
way for YouTube to approach it, which is
how do you wrestle with this concept of
an open platform, but also having some
rules for the road in terms of how
things operate on YouTube. For example,
you know, we never allowed adult content
on on YouTube, right? Like how did do
make that decision? What was important
behind it, etc.
And again, our approach there is to be
very clear about what um sort of those
baseline rules are. There are, as you
know, pages and pages of them. And we
really work hard to try to enforce them,
and our enforcement is not always
perfect. One of the verticals that we
have on YouTube is news. We have lots
and lots of successful news creators.
Not every creator
um is serving the same audience or
looking to do the same thing. So,
there's lots of people who are
approaching it in different ways, and I
think, honestly, that that's also a
really entrepreneurial ecosystem with
lots of new news creators that, you
know,
other folks might have different
opinions on. It's not, I think, we are
not qualified to have a point of view on
this particular creator XYZ is better
than this particular creator. Um the
audience makes that judgment. I always
say that, you know, the best way to
think about the YouTube algorithm is to
replace the word algorithm with
audience. And that is because it is a
reflection of the audience. That's the
reason why creators
who are successful on our platform have
that notion of authenticity because
what the out quote-unquote algorithm is
doing is adjusting to your behavior on
YouTube.
>> I want to thank you so much for your
time today. I really appreciated it.
We'll talk again.
>> Yeah, thank you.
>> On the interview, we speak to our guest
twice. So, the next day I called Neal
back, and we spoke about AI.
Thank you so much for sitting down with
me yesterday.
>> Of course.
>> And I was wondering if there was
anything that you were thinking about
after our last conversation before I ask
you some other questions about your own
sort of personal journey.
>> Yeah, um you know, I I appreciated the
conversation, and I do really appreciate
how much um depth we got into.
You know, I was as I was thinking about
it on my on my way home in the evening.
Um,
you know, one of one of the things
that's struck me, I think, is
a lot of the examples and a lot of the
conversation was
very,
uh, US focused, which makes sense. We're
based in the US here.
But but one of the things that's super
interesting, at least to me, about
YouTube is that it's
truly global. You know, you could be a
fan of, you know, this particular type
of dance that might originate in,
you know, in Canada, but you might be
living in Southern India and vice versa
and those types of things and that's
that's also kind of a very interesting
phenomenon that's happened
as a result of
of YouTube. So, that was that was sort
of one thing that that had occurred to
me.
>> Yeah, in fact, I want to talk a little
bit about AI in a minute and one of the
innovations that you have enabled is
using language now to be able to get
creators,
who are in their native language and
you know, you can see them in your
native language and so that of course
opens up just everyone's content much,
much more widely. I was watching a, you
know, Argentinian creator. I do speak
Spanish, but it was amazing to see that
all translated in real time in English,
you know, for people who might not speak
the language. So,
>> Yeah, that's actually a perfect example,
a kind of an of the moment example, for
sure.
>> Well, I'm glad you mentioned this global
reach because I was actually thinking
about you and your journey. You know,
your father moved to the US
with $25 in his pocket, as you've said
before, from India to do his PhD in the
United States. And then you grew up in
the Midwest, which you have described as
a sort of very typical 70s and 80s
childhood, which by the way, I remember
too, you know, watching Star Wars, going
to the movie theater. And then at age
10, your family moved back to India.
I wondered what helped you get through
that shock of this one very specific
kind of experience and then finding
yourself in a completely different
context?
>> Uh so, as you said, I was, you know,
grew up in in Michigan, um you know,
love Star Wars and Transformers and all
of that sort of good stuff. Um
I was a big sports kid back then, too,
and when I moved to India, um it was a
bit of a um
uh culture shock, even though obviously
my parents are of Indian heritage, but I
couldn't speak the language, I couldn't
read and write it, and um
you know, you fast-forward through that
experience and um I think, you know,
obviously
I appreciate that experience deeply, and
a lot of it I think, you know, you you
draw these sort of direct lines
sometimes, um
or you sort of kind of
justify in reverse, but I really do
genuinely believe there's a direct line
from that experience,
um because um
I saw a lot of sort of like
commonalities between global culture,
differences, and sort of that nuance,
and
I think that me becoming someone
just a fan of kind of media and
storytelling and everything from music
to sports to ultimately Bollywood and
Hollywood and and the like, I think
stemmed from the fact that that was the
way that I connected, frankly, with
different cultures and different people,
and it was the way that I
moved from being like an outsider to
having friends.
>> In speaking to people who do know you,
they do say that you have this very even
temper, a very even keeled. You don't
let yourself get swept up in
crises, which any CEO has to deal with.
How do you
apply that in terms of something
difficult comes your way and you have to
figure out how to navigate it as a
leader.
>> It's funny, my my wife jokes that I'm
even killed Neil. That's sort of what
she what she'll what she calls me. Um
you know, I for the first thing just to
be to be very sort of candid with you, I
think
um by the time a a decision gets to me,
almost by definition it's a difficult
decision because and often times it's a
trade-off between two bad choices,
right? Or two very difficult choices.
Otherwise, that decision would be made,
you know, somewhere else in the
organization. It wouldn't really need to
come to me. And so what I try to do um
to the to the best of my ability and we
talked a lot about this yesterday, too,
is
I really do try to focus uh beforehand
on
the principles by which we will make
those decisions and I believe that
principles are particularly important in
tough decisions that involve trade-offs.
In terms of
um examples, I'll I'll give you
I'll give you one that's a very YouTubey
kind of example that's sort of deep in
the in the YouTube ecosystem from a few
years ago.
So um if you are watching a YouTube
video, you'll notice below that video
there's a like and a dislike button. And
um
you can tap that obviously many many
people tap that after they're watch a
video, like, dislike, and we used to
have a count next to the those buttons,
the dislike button in particular.
And um a few years ago we removed it.
And that sounds like a small thing, like
just a number right below the video, but
it was a really really big thing in the
YouTube ecosystem because it was part of
the YouTube heritage, where YouTube
started from, you know, we were the you
know, the the platform that had a count
across that, so your video had to stand
up to scrutiny from this audience.
And um
so lots of creators were very very
attached to it, particularly larger
creators who, you know, and and you
know, some viewers were attached to it,
too, cuz it was like how to That's a
quick way to evaluate a video before you
watch it. However, a few years ago, it
was becoming clear that specially for
smaller creators or perhaps marginalized
creators, it was becoming something that
could potentially get weaponized and
used as a means to
troll them or have a robot army sort of
kind of get at them. And so we made the
dis- difficult decision, and ultimately
I made it, to remove that count.
It was positively received in many ways,
but it was extremely critically received
in other ways, but I think having those
principles allowed me to ultimately make
that call that
was a
in in the YouTube world was a very
consequential thing, even though it
seemed small.
>> I want to talk about um what's here and
what's coming, and we touched on AI
already a little bit, but this is the
huge conversation that everyone's
having, and you've declared war on AI
slop, but you're also handing creators
tools to use AI, and I'm just wondering
how you distinguish between what it is a
creative AI video
that creators are using in a good way
and AI slop.
>> Yeah, you're you're you're really
getting at the the heart of the matter.
So this is
uh and I would say that, just to be very
transparent, I don't think that this is
a solved question by any means, and
frankly, the rate at which AI is
impacting all of our lives,
the
the ground beneath that question is
changing on a weekly basis, if not even
faster, so I just I want to be very
up-front about that. But I I have this
very firm conviction that it will never
replace
um human creativity. Again, back to one
of the very first things we talked about
yesterday, which is that notion of
authenticity.
People want to see, you know, an artist
on stage because they know something
about her life story and they have some
background in terms of why she wrote the
lyrics that way and why she's performing
it that way.
We've had AI possible to the point where
computers can play chess, but for it to
be interesting on YouTube, at least one
of the contestants has to be a human.
And so, because of this notion of the
human stories on YouTube, we I
absolutely cannot have it be overrun
with AI slop. And what if AI, of course,
does is just like it can be a tool to
produce amazing content or further
democratize content creation so that
another entirely new class of creators
can come on board like the first
YouTubers 20 years ago, it can also
allow for the creation of lots of
low-quality content. And so,
that's where the AI slop question comes
in and there I think there's aspects of
it that are not new.
The part that's new is the scale, but
the notion of low-quality content,
click-baity content,
content that might be produced for
monetization
motives, but is not actually
quality to a certain level. We've we've
been able to deal with that on YouTube.
And so,
I think, you know, just like AI is
powering some of that low-quality
content, it can also be used to combat
it on YouTube in terms of what we
recommend or what have you. That's so
that's that's
and then the last point that I'll make
on this
that I think is you alluded to as well
is I also think that we have to have a
bit of a delicate hand on this.
And this is where this is the part
that's the unsolved part because
um
AI-created content does not mean
low-quality content. Amazing content is
produced by AI just like
technologies from the past whether it's
Photoshop or the drum machine produced a
new form of creativity and I do think
that's what's happening in the AI world
and and so we can't have too many of
those false positives where we're sort
of killing the new form of creativity
that's driven by these tools and I would
tell you that every day we're trying to
really strike that balance
but we're very very focused on making
sure that
when you open up the YouTube app it's
it's not a feed of of AI slop.
>> Yeah, I mean
right now you have a like a small little
stamp when AI has been used on a
on on something that is posted.
Is that enough?
>> Yeah, I my personal view is that it is
sort of table stakes but I do think that
it's a place to start and I think the
other
really big thing that I hear from when I
speak to
creators,
public figures, journalists, etc. is
being able to manage their likeness in
this in this AI world and that is I
think something that is profoundly
important in my view and not just like
the classic sort of deep fakes and all
those types of things of course but also
impersonation for
you know
to trick a user or to steal someone's
creative idea and things like that and
so those things I think are also
important that will not get solved with
an AI label
but also but need to have tools and so
one of the areas that we're very focused
on is this notion of
we call it likeness detection. We've had
a technology here at YouTube for a long
time called content ID was actually in
some sense one of the very early uses of
AI almost a decade ago if if not longer
and it allows rights holders, artists,
musicians, whether if you're Taylor
Swift or what have you to make a choice
when your music is used or when your a
particular, you know, movie character is
used to either take down that video or
monetize that video and it has created
the ecosystem that exists on YouTube. So
that principle of content ID, we want to
carry over to the AI world. The big
picture question around like, well, you
know, if um a video can do something
XYZ, can review a technology product and
can create, you know, a fake reviewer to
do that or an AI generated reviewer to
do that, then who needs me?
I really believe and again, I could be
naive on this is
what shines through on YouTube is that
human connection, what that person
stands for,
um you know,
uh just like in your case, people
understand what the interview means,
they know how Lulu's going to approach
it and I just I don't think that that is
going to get swapped by, you know, AI
generated,
you know, pick take your pick,
journalist, artist, musician and and
that's that I I have seen nothing
despite all the rapid progress here that
would be contrary to what I what I said.
>> Can you promise me that there's not
going to be a Lulu bot doing my job in 2
years?
>> I really I I don't and by the way, I I'm
also not naive to the point to say that
there isn't going to be a disruption.
Like there's a whole supply chain of
creativity and I do think the and just
like is happening in the software
industry, there is a going to be a
change in the nature of the jobs, how
those jobs are done, even who does them.
So I don't want to trivialize that
disruption. Of course, that happens with
any big
technology paradigm shift and AI is not
going going different in that context.
But to your core question of the
replacement of that human creativity
element in what people connect with
um on a service like YouTube, I just
don't see
AI generation replacing um
uh the humans that produce, you know,
videos on YouTube.
>> All right, I'm going to come back in 2
years and and if I'm still here, you'd
be right. I'll be holding you to that.
>> All right. Last question. Um
one of the things that really struck me
from everything we talked about is how
you said that YouTube is really this
reflection of humanity.
And, you know, as we've mentioned, you
have billions of users, you get a lot of
information from
all those users. And, I'm just wondering
what you've learned about humanity
leading YouTube. What surprised you?
>> Oh, um
you know, I could I could reflect on
this for a long time, but I um and
hopefully you got some sense of this. I
I tend to be
um an optimist almost to the point of
being naive about these things, Lulu.
And and
what has what is a privilege for me on
YouTube is that, you know, despite the
challenges and, you know, despite the
incredibly complicated world that we
live in, what I love about what I see on
YouTube is
um
like the the common humanity aspect,
which is
um I was watching, you know, YouTube on
my television set last night, and I was
watching a
a YouTuber lives in New York City,
reviews restaurants. And, you know, the
restaurant aspect of that was
interesting, but the way that he talked
about his life and how he anticipated
going to have that meal and
and his experience after that meal.
Like, that's what I mean by the common
humanity, and that shines through in
YouTube. It's almost as if like if
aliens discovered Earth, you know, what
5,000 years from now, YouTube is that
encapsulation of that. And on balance, I
think
it's awesome.
>> Thank you so much. I've really enjoyed
this conversation.
>> Thank you, Lulu. Appreciate it.
>> I'm Lulu Garcia-Navarro.
>> And I'm David Marchese.
>> And we're the hosts of The Interview, an
audio and video podcast from The New
York Times.
>> Every week we interview fascinating and
influential people from all walks of
life.
>> Subscribe to our YouTube channel so
you'll never miss an episode.